Update README: Clarify which standards are useful submissions (#5737)
ethereum/EIPs: assets/eip-1/useful-submissions.md

# Useful submissions

> A <dfn>standard</dfn>, in technical settings, is an established specification which allows any compliant thing to work with any compliant user of that thing, also known as cross-connect. It is a set of restrictions, or marketing claims, incumbent upon the standardized product.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A *standard*, in technical settings, is an established specification that allows any compliant thing to work with any compliant user of that thing, also known as cross-connect. It is a set of restrictions or marketing claims, incumbent upon the standardized product.
```

> We call the compliant thing a <dfn>producer</dfn>. And the thing that is relying on those specifications is the <dfn>consumer</dfn>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We call the compliant thing a *producer*. And the thing that is relying on those specifications is the *consumer*.
```

> And in technical circles, we call the specific parts that are standardized as its <dfn>surface area</dfn>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
And in technical circles, we call the specific parts that are standardized as its *surface area*.
```
These short sentences should probably be all grouped into one paragraph.

| ----------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Food labeled as "USDA organic" in USA     | [USDA enforces](https://www.ams.usda.gov/rules-regulations/organic) usage of this word |
| Cherios box claims its oats are "toasted" | There is no applicable definition or enforcement of what "toasting" is, your recourse is may only include a civil action |

We have looked at a few example of things that have been standardized, different kinds of standards. And you might think, anything can be rewritten as a standard if you really wanted to. And you're right. Here are some contrived examples:

* When I walk down the street, I don't skip. That's **a walking standard**.
* My smart contract allows to mint pictures of tables using a `mintTable` function. This is **a minting standard for NFTs**.
* I wrote some software and created test cases. All of those test cases are **a software standard**.

Some of these behaviors might be important. Maybe you don't like skipping, you can adopt that behavior. But as a standard these are useless, I hope you understand. But let's articulate why.

> <mark>A standard only deserves to be written if multiple people adhere to it and people depend on its surface area.</mark>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**A standard only deserves to be written if multiple people adhere to it and people depend on its surface area.**
```

> FYI, in the United States, the post office has their own police. Watch out for that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
(Note: In the United States, the post office has its own police. Watch out!)
```
Might also be helpful to put that after the ✅

✅ If you routinely use postcard stamps to mail letters that are not postcard size you will go to jail. Multiple people mail postcards and depend on not going to jail... this deserves to be standardized.

❌ Your smart contract uses a specific way to track inclusion of addresses in a set. Nobody cares or is affected by which specific way you track inclusion of addresses in a set. This does not deserve to be standardized.

> An easy, low-effort, low-quality way to find a bunch of things to standardize is to find a popular repository of smart contracts, and then write every one of them up with a short rationale. This is fun for practice, but please do not publish these as it will be a waste of other people's time to read. Nobody depends on these details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An easy way to find a bunch of things to standardize is to find a popular repository of smart contracts, and then write every one of them up with a short rationale. This is fun as practice, but unless you have found a strong motivation, please do not submit these.
```
Although I generally agree with the sentiment, those last few sentences are too harsh, even by my standards.

> But if you really WANT to make something and standardize it, here's how.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But if you really WANT to standardize something, here's how:
```
Make this a bit more succinct

1. Go make a thing that is useful
2. Make it successful
3. Make other people want to interoperate with your thing
4. Make other people want to copy you
5. Then go standardize it

> Remember, CryptoKitties and CryptoPunks came first, the blockchain NFT standard come afterwards. Don't think that having some standard will make your product successful, that causality is backwards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember, CryptoKitties and CryptoPunks came first, and [the blockchain NFT standard](../../EIPS/eip-721.md) come afterward. Having a standard will not make your product successful. Instead, having a project will make your standard successful.
```

> William Entriken / 2022-09-30 / this article is cross-posted with [phor.net](https://blog.phor.net/2022/09/30/What-kinds-of-things-should-be-standardized.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
William Entriken / 2022-09-30 / Derived from a [phor.net](https://blog.phor.net/2022/09/30/What-kinds-of-things-should-be-standardized.html) article
```
